                                                                                          Dreamitate:
                                             Real-World Visuomotor Policy Learning via Video Generation

                                                                 Junbang Liang∗1 Ruoshi Liu∗1 Ege Ozguroglu1 Sruthi Sudhakar1
                                                                   Achal Dave2 Pavel Tokmakov2 Shuran Song3 Carl Vondrick1
                                                                 1                          2                               3
                                                                     Columbia University        Toyota Research Institute       Stanford University
                                                                                         dreamitate.cs.columbia.edu
arXiv:2406.16862v1 [cs.RO] 24 Jun 2024




                                                                                                                            Generated Video

                                                                               Tool




                                                                                                                                                      Dream
                                         Input Image                                                                …                          …

                                                                              Video
                                                                             Generator




                                                                                                                                                      Track
                                                                                                                                                      Execute
                                                                                                                    …                          …
                                             Classical
                                         Visuomotor Policy


                                                                                                                            Robot Execution

                                         Figure 1: Real-World Visuomotor Policy Learning via Video Generation. Dreamitate is a vi-
                                         suomotor policy learning framework that fine-tunes a video generative model to synthesize videos
                                         (indicated by         ) of humans using tools to complete a task. The tool’s trajectory in the gener-
                                         ated video is tracked, and the robot executes this trajectory to accomplish the task in the real-world.


                                                             Abstract: A key challenge in manipulation is learning a policy that can robustly
                                                             generalize to diverse visual environments. A promising mechanism for learning
                                                             robust policies is to leverage video generative models that are pretrained on large-
                                                             scale datasets of internet videos. In this paper, we propose a visuomotor policy
                                                             learning framework that fine-tunes a video diffusion model on human demonstra-
                                                             tions of a given task. At test time, we generate a video showing an execution of
                                                             the task conditioned on images of a novel scene, and use this synthesized video
                                                             to directly control the robot. Our key insight is that using common tools allows
                                                             us to effortlessly bridge the embodiment gap between the human hand and the
                                                             robot manipulator. We evaluate our approach on four tasks of increasing com-
                                                             plexity and demonstrate that harnessing internet-scale generative models allows
                                                             the learned policy to achieve a significantly higher degree of generalization than
                                                             existing behavior cloning approaches.

                                                             Keywords: Visuomotor Policy Learning, Imitation Learning, Video Generation


                                         1        Introduction

                                         Learning visuomotor policies that decide actions from perception has been a longstanding challenge
                                         in robotics because they need to generalize to diverse physical situations [1]. Recently, behavior
                                         cloning from human demonstrations [2, 3] has become the method of choice for many manipulation
                                                 ∗
                                                     Equal contribution.
tasks, where visuomotor policy learning is formulated as a regression problem to map visual obser-
vations to actions supervised by human demonstrations. However, behavior cloning requires ground
truth robot actions, which makes scaling to diverse situations challenging.
We aim to learn generalizable visuomotor policies by leveraging video generation. Trained on
large-scale datasets of internet videos, video generation provides a promising avenue for general-
ization because extensive priors from human behavior can be transferred into robot behavior. Many
recent methods have also explored how to capitalize on these priors, such as synthesizing videos
of human behavior [4] or synthesizing videos of robot behavior [5]. However, while videos of
people capture the diversity of behavior, generated human actions are difficult to transfer to robots
due to the embodiment gap. While directly synthesizing videos of robots would be more realizable
physically, the scale of available data is many orders of magnitude smaller than videos of humans,
making the learned policy less robust in an in-the-wild environment.
How else can we leverage video generation for policy learning? In this work, we introduce Dreami-
tate,1 a visuomotor policy that controls robot behavior via conditional video generation. Our key
insight is that the end-effector is the most important part of the embodiment for manipulation: its
interaction with diverse objects is challenging to model explicitly and can benefit most from com-
monsense knowledge from video generation. The rest of robot embodiment can be solved through
inverse kinematics. Given a visual observation, our policy synthesizes a video of a person perform-
ing tasks with a tool. To translate into robot behaviors, we 3D track the tool in the synthesized
video, and simply transfer the trajectory into explicit robot actions. Figure 1 shows an example of
the actions created from this policy.
Our formulation offers several major advantages compared to traditional visuomotor policies:

    • Generalizability. Our underlying video generation model is pretrained on a massive amount of
      videos available on the internet, including a wide variety of human manipulation in all kinds of
      environments. By formulating policy learning as video model finetuning, the prior knowledge
      learned from pre-taining can be preserved, allowing our model to learn generalizable manipula-
      tion skills with the same amount of demonstration data.
    • Scalability. Our finetuning videos are recordings of human demonstrations instead of teleoper-
      ation, making our dataset collection more scalable.
    • Interpretability. During inference time, our video model predicts future execution plans in the
      form of videos before the actual robot executions are performed. Compared to a black-box end-
      to-end policy, our formulation offers an intermediate representation of policy that is interpretable
      to humans, a key feature for human-robot interaction applications.

We evaluated our approach across four real-world tasks, including bimanual manipulation, precise
3D manipulation, and long-horizon tasks, using a small number of expert human demonstrations.
We found that the video model consistently outperformed the baseline behavior cloning model in
generalizing to unseen scenarios. Additionally, we analyzed the model’s performance when scaling
down the training dataset and found that the video model maintained strong generalization perfor-
mance even with fewer demonstrations. We will release the code and data for reproducing our
results. Please refer to the supplementary material for the robot videos.

2        Related Work
Behavior Cloning. Behavior cloning (BC) has emerged as a leading approach in manipulation
tasks, learning policies from demonstrations through supervised learning. Early BC efforts involved
end-to-end models mapping states to actions, but struggled with multimodal behaviors and high-
precision tasks [6, 7, 8]. Subsequently, Energy-Based Models (EBMs) were explored, predicting
actions by minimizing energy in sequence optimization [9, 10, 11, 12]. Recently, conditional gen-
erative models have shown promise in capturing multimodal demonstration behaviors, enhancing
     1
         Dream then imitate


                                                     2
Human Demonstration Setup           Training Dataset of Video Demonstrations
                                                                                                  Robot Execution Setup
        Stereo

                                                                                                                                           Track in Synthesized Video T ({vt̂ })
                                                                                                        Stereo
                                                                                                                                                                                         Robot Action {at}
       Camera 1        Stereo
                      Camera 2
                                                                                                       Camera 1
                                                                                                                   Stereo     Input v0
                                                                                                                  Camera 2


                                                            …
                                                                                                    Robot
                                                                                                     Tool
    Human Tool
                                                                                                                               Video
                                                                                                                             Diﬀusion fθ
                                        Input v0                   Synthesized Video {vt̂ }

                                                       Video                                                                                                  CAD to Track
                                                     Diﬀusion fθ


                                             Fine-tuning Video Generation


                  Figure 2: Method Overview. For each task, (Step 1) we capture stereo camera recordings of human
                  demonstrations of tool use from a top and a side view. (Step 2) The video model is fine-tuned to
                  recreate these demonstrations from an initial scene image. (Step 3) In a new, unseen scenario, a
                  stereo image pair is provided to the video model to generate (        ) the manipulation. The tool’s
                  trajectory in the generated video is tracked and executed by the robot to complete the task.

                  task success rates [2, 3, 13]. Different from previous models, we integrate video prediction and 3D
                  tracking to predict action prediction.
                  Visual Pretraining for Policy Learning. Prior works have extensively explored various ways to
                  pre-train the perception model in a visuomotor policy for learning more robust visual representation.
                  One of the most popular pertaining objectives has been video prediction [14, 15, 16, 17, 18]. By
                  learning to predict future based on the current observation, a model can learn the dynamic and
                  causality of the world crucial for physical interaction. Contrastive learning [15, 19, 20, 21] as well
                  as masked autoencoding [22, 23, 24] are two very popular self-supervised learning objectives for
                  learning visual representation for robotics. Besides, another line of work [25, 26, 27] studies learning
                  a generalizable reward function through visual pertaining for reinforcement learning.
                  Video Models for Decision-Making. More recently, in light of the fast progress of text-to-
                  video generative models [28, 29, 30, 31, 32], the hope to leverage internet-scale video pertaining
                  for robotics is rekindled [33]. A line of work uses video generative model as a world simula-
                  tor [34, 5, 28], which can predict future video conditioned on an action. Another line of work uses
                  video-language model for longer-horizon planning [35, 36, 37]. Different from prior works on this
                  topic which typically use video prediction models as a world model or simulator in order to per-
                  form planning and decision making, Dreamitate uses video prediction model as part of a visuomotor
                  policy and directly uses the predicted video for action prediction.

                  3       Approach
                  3.1        Overview

                  Given a video frame of the scene v0 , our goal is to plan and execute robot actions at ∈ SE(3) via
                  video generation. We approach this problem through the framework:
                                                                   at = T (v̂t ) where {v̂t } = fθ (v0 )                                                                           (1)
                  where fθ (·) is a generative video model with learnable parameters θ and v̂t is a synthesized frame.
                  We train f to generate videos of a human doing the task using a tool that we can track in 3D. T tracks
                  the trajectory of the tool in the generated video v̂t , which we can directly use to control the end-
                  effector state to perform manipulation tasks. Figure 2 visualizes this framework. This composition
                  of synthesize-then-track facilitates cheap data collection without teleoperation. Moreover, it aligns
                  with pretaining video data, which is composed of mostly videos showing human behavior.

                  3.2        Video Generation

                  Starting with a video generator pre-trained on internet videos, we fine-tune it on a small video
                  demonstration dataset in order to combine the priors from internet videos with behaviors from
                  demonstration videos. To collect videos for fine-tuning, we build a tabletop setup with two cal-
                  ibrated cameras positioned 45 degrees apart for better visibility. We capture several pair of stereo
                  videos (v̂ 1 , v̂ 2 ) ∈ V of humans performing the task using a 3D printed tool (see Figure 3 for details).


                                                                                              3
    Human Behavior       Human Tools                 Robot Tools   Robot Behavior   Figure 3: Aligning Human and
                                         Rotation                                   Robot Behavior via Trackable
                                          (Fig. 4)
                                                                                    Tools. We use custom tools with
                                        Scooping
                                                                                    known CAD models for human
                                         (Fig. 5)                                   demonstrations,     which facilitate
                                                                                    precise 3D tracking, across four
                                        Sweeping
                                         (Fig. 6)                                   real-world manipulation tasks. We
                                                                                    design unique tools (e.g., a spoon for
                                       Push-Shape                                   scooping) to show the generalizability
                                         (Fig. 7)
                                                                                    of our approach for varying tasks.


We use these demonstration videos to fine-tune the video generative model. Since we will imitate
the trajectory of the synthesized tool in the physical world, we generate stereo videos to make action
possible in 3D. Let (v̂t1 , v̂t2 ) be the predicted stereo video frames at time t and (vt1 , vt2 ) be the ground
truth stereo frames from demonstration videos. We optimize the video prediction objective:
                          " T                                         #
                             X
                                          1   1             2     2
                                                                   
              min Ev∈V                 vˆt − vt 2 + vˆt − vt 2             for {v̂t } = fθ (v0 )              (2)
                     θ
                                       t=1

We initialize θ to the pre-trained weights learned from large-scale internet video datasets (Stable
Video Diffusion [29]). We train a separate fθ for each task (e.g. sweeping or scooping).
Following the implementation from [38], the encoder and decoder are frozen such that only the
spatial/temporal attention layers are fine-tuned. The per-frame image embedding input to the model
is modified based on the viewing angle of the output frame to facilitate stereo video generation. This
ensures that the first half of the frames generate the first view and the half generates the second view,
using the initial image embedding from the respective view.
At test time, we will be given a stereo image pair of the scene that we wish the robot to manipulate.
We apply the fine-tuned video model f (v0 ) and obtain a generated stereo video frames v̂t of the task
being performed.

3.3     Track then Act

The synthesized video frames {v̂t } serve as the intermediate representation of our policy to obtain
an action trajectory, {at }, that we then execute on the robot. Actions at ∈ SE(3) are represented
as the 6D pose of the tool relative to the camera. By using a known CAD model, we can efficiently
and accurately track the tool in each frame of the generated videos and therefore obtain precise
locations of the tool. Each action ai in the action trajectory corresponds to one frame from the
synthesized video. For 3D consistency, we use the generated stereo pair, along with the calibrated
camera parameters to resolve 6D pose of the tool. For tracking the tool from an RGB image, we
use Megapose [39] and operate on 768 × 448 resolution video frames with camera intrinsic derived
from the default values of the Intel Realsense camera. Finally, during execution, the customized
tool is mounted on the robot arm and actions a0 , ..., aT are executed by the robot arm. The entire
data-collection, training, and fine-tuning pipeline are agent-independent. This is possible because
we use tool’s as manipulators and track known tools in generated videos, removing the need for
learning any agent-specific action spaces.

4      Experiments

In this section, we evaluate the performance of our video model in real-world robot manipulation
tasks. The evaluation, summarized in Table 1, encompasses four distinct tasks including object
rotation, granular material scooping, table top sweeping and shape pushing (see Figure 3 for a vi-
sualization of the used tools). The details of each task are further explained in the corresponding
sections below. For an assessment of our model’s capabilities, we benchmark its performance against
Diffusion Policy [40] as a baseline.


                                                                    4
               Input Image                         Ours (Execution)                         Diffusion Policy (Execution)

   Target
 Orientation

                                                         …                                              …
                                 Generated Video




                                                         …                                              …




                                                         …                                              …




Figure 4: Rotation Qualitative Results. For this task, we provide as input the image on the left for
each row, with an example of a successful rotation overlaid. Our video generation-based approach
succeeds, while Diffusion Policy fails to select stable grasping points on the object, causing it to slip
during manipulation. Generated videos are indicated by            .


4.1            Experimental Setup

To evaluate the model’s generalizability, the data was collected by a human demonstrator at different
locations for training and evaluation using the same camera setup, though the exact tabletop and
lighting conditions varied. To further test the model’s robustness in real-world scenarios, we ensured
that the sets of objects used in training and evaluation are non-overlapping. To initialize tool tracking
with Megapose [39], background subtraction and hand removal based on skin color were employed.
In rare cases where this process failed, human corrections were applied to the bounding boxes (both
for our method and for the baseline).
We used the same training data to train Diffusion Policy with stereo image input. The videos were
preprocessed using Megapose for tool tracking, providing target trajectories for training. We used
a pretrained ResNet-18 variant [40] as the baseline, as the pretrained CLIP encoder [41] variant
showed lower performance in our tasks. We trained Diffusion Policy for 200 epochs to predict
actions for the next 12 time steps, maintaining an open-loop system without subsampling the training
data, similar to the video model.

                               Training Objects              Demonstrations      Test Objects                         Test Trials
 Rotation                            31                               371             10                                   40
 Scooping                    17 Bowls, 8 Particles                    368     8 Bowls, 4 Particles                         40
 Sweeping                        6 Particles                          356         6 Particles                              40
 Push-Shape                       26 Letters                          727          8 Shapes                                32

Table 1: Tasks Summary. We detail the train and test setup for each task above. For each task, we
use a distinct set of objects during testing than training.

4.2            Object Rotation Task

Task. We design a rotation task, shown in Figure 4, to test our policy’s ability to coordinate end-
effectors and choose appropriate grasping points to manipulate real-world objects. In each training
demonstration, we randomly place an object on the table, and use a gripper, shown in Figure 3 (top),
to grasp the object at appropriate points and rotate it counterclockwise up to 45 degrees.
Setup. We collect training data with 31 objects, with 14 real-world objects (such as boxes or a
hammer) and 17 custom colored shapes made out of foam. We use 10 unseen real-world objects for
evaluation. We mark a trajectory as successful if the robot makes and maintains contact with the
object throughout the rotation, and rotates it at least 25 degrees counterclockwise.
Results. As shown in Table 2, our policy significantly outperforms Diffusion Policy (92.5% vs.
55%). Fig. 4 illustrates cases where our policy succeeds while Diffusion Policy fails. We observe


                                                                        5
Figure 5: Scooping Qualitative Results. We provide the input image on the left (without the
overlays provided for illustration) to our model and Diffusion Policy, and show the output trajectory
on the right. Our approach succeeds in most trials, while Diffusion Policy is often distracted by
other objects in the scene, placing material in the wrong container and failing to scoop accurately.
Generated videos are indicated by           .

that Diffusion Policy can fail to move the end-effector into contact with the object. In more chal-
lenging cases, Diffusion Policy is prone to selecting unstable grasping points causing the object to
slip during manipulation. In contrast, our policy consistently makes contact with the object, with
limited failures when selecting appropriate grasping points for particularly challenging shapes, such
as a transparent bag with toys inside.

                                 Rotation      Scooping        Sweeping          Push-Shape
              Model            Success Rate   Success Rate   Success Rate    mIoU     Rot. Error
        Diffusion Policy [2]     22 / 40         22 / 40         5 / 40      0.550      48.2◦
               Ours              37 / 40         34 / 40        37 / 40      0.731      8.0◦

Table 2: Quantitative Results. We compare our method to Diffusion Policy on four tasks quanti-
tatively. We report success rates (successful trials / total trials) for rotation, scooping, and sweeping
tasks. For Push-Shape, we report mean intersection-over-union (mIoU) and average rotation error
(Rot. Error). Our approach performs well across all tasks, whereas Diffusion Policy shows worse
performance overall and degrades in the more challenging sweeping and Push-Shape scenarios.


4.3   Granular Material Scooping Task

Task. This task, shown in Figure 5, requires scooping granular material (e.g., beans) from a full
container to an empty one while avoiding distractor objects. This task requires the policy to perform
precise manipulation of a scooping tool, identify the full and the empty containers, along with their
precise locations, in arbitrary positions, and ignore distractors.
Setup. We collect demonstrations with 17 bowls and 8 colored beans with only 1 distraction object
in the scene at a time. At test time, we use an unseen set of 8 bowls, 4 new colored particles, and 5
distractor objects per trial sampled from a fixed set of 15 everyday objects. We mark a trajectory as
successful if the robot transfers any particles to the empty bowl.
Results. As shown in Table 2 (middle), our policy significantly outperforms Diffusion Policy (85%
vs. 55%). This is a particularly challenging task for our approach, due to the small target (the
scooper) for object tracking and video generation. This demonstrates that stereo video generation
can accurately determine the object’s pose to perform 3D manipulation. By comparison, Diffusion
Policy is often distracted by objects in the scene, placing material in the wrong container, and failing
more frequently in scooping due to misjudging the bowl’s height on the table, as illustrated in Fig. 5.

4.4   Table Top Sweeping Task

Task. The sweeping task, shown in Figure 6, requires policies to use a brush to sweep randomly
placed particles to a target location marked by a randomly placed star, while avoiding obstacles.
This task is designed to test policy’s ability to handle multi-modal distributions in the training data.


                                                   6
               Input Image                Ours (Execution)                   Diffusion Policy (Execution)




                                      Generated
Object to be
                                        Video
                                                  …                                      …
  Swept
                        Target




                                                  …                                      …




                                                  …                                      …




Figure 6: Sweeping Qualitative Results. We provide the input image on the left (minus the white
and green circles overlaid for illustration) to our model and Diffusion Policy, and show the output
trajectories on the right. Our approach again achieves high success rate even on this challenging,
multi-modal task, whereas Diffusion Policy generates trajectories that often collide with obstacles
and fail to sweep to the target. Generated videos are indicated by       .


Setup. Training data includes 6 colored particles and 25 distraction objects, with 5 to 6 distractions
at a time. At test time, we use 6 new particles and 15 unseen distractions, with 2 to 4 beans and 5
distractions randomly placed on the table. The training data contains some variations with multiple
ways to achieve the goal, such as choosing which particle to sweep in the scene. Due to the small
size of the particles, we remove the final pooling layer from Diffusion Policy ResNet-18 encoder
to provide a higher spatial resolution and improve baseline performance. We mark a trajectory as
successful if any particle is transferred to be within 50 mm from the target.
Results. In Table 2 (right), we observe that the video model maintains strong performance in this
task with a 92.5% success rate. In contrast, Diffusion Policy generates trajectories that often collide
with obstacles and fail to sweep to the target (see Fig. 6), achieving only a 12.5% success rate.
This experiment demonstrates that the capitalizing on internet-scale pre-trained video generation
models allows to better handle multi-modal demonstrations and achieve a much larger degree of
generalization in this challenging scenario.

4.5            Push-Shape Task (Long Horizon)

Task. Push-Shape, shown in Figure 7, is a challenging version of the long-horizon Push-T task [2]:
we place a foam shape on the table, and task the robot with pushing the object to a specified target
goal mask (given as input to the policy) over consecutive steps. This is a challenging task as it
requires adjusting the position and orientation of the shape, requiring predicting the shape’s move-
ment, which depends on the contact between the object and the end-effector, as well as material
properties of the table.
Setup. We train with a set of 26 foam objects each in the shape of a letter from the alphabet, and
test on 8 unseen foam shapes (including digits and polygons). As this is a challenging, multi-step
task, we score the best of 4 rollouts for each trial, and report the mean intersect-over-union (mIoU)
with the target mask as well as the average rotation error from the target.
Results. As shown in Table 2, over the 32 trials, the video model achieved a significantly higher
mIoU of 0.731 compared to 0.550 mIoU from Diffusion Policy, and a rotation error of 8.0 degrees
compared to 48.2 degrees from Diffusion Policy. We find that Diffusion Policy tends to push the
object to the target, but fails to effectively rotate the object to match the mask. By contrast, the video
model produces appropriate pushing actions to adjust the object’s position and orientation, thereby
reducing the rotation error. Qualitative examples of the model rollouts are illustrated in Fig. 7.




                                                             7
                  Input Image       Step 1                   Step 2                          Step 3                  Step 4




   Ours                                      Generated
                                               Video
(Execution)
               Target




 Diffusion
   Policy
(Execution)




Figure 7: Push-Shape Qualitative Results. We provide the image on the left, including the gray
overlay indicating the target object position and orientation, to our model and Diffusion Policy, and
show output trajectories on the right. Our method produces appropriate pushing actions to adjust
the object’s position. In contrast, Diffusion Policy fails to effectively rotate the object to match the
mask. Generated videos (top row, bottom right) are indicated by             .


4.6       Performance Scaling Curve

We studied the impact of training set size on the general-
ization ability of our policy and compared it with Dif-                                                Ours
                                                                                       1
fusion Policy using a rotation task. Both models per-                                             Diffusion Policy
formed well with the full dataset. When re-trained with                               0.8




                                                                       Success Rate
two-thirds and one-third of the dataset and tested over
                                                                                      0.6
40 trials, the results depicted in Figure 8 indicate that
while Diffusion Policy’s performance declines signifi-                                0.4
cantly with reduced data. In contrast, our model remains
                                                                                      0.2
stable and maintains high success rates even with only
one-third of the data. This highlights our model’s superior                            0
                                                                                            1/3             2/3             Full
generalization, which can be attributed to the extensive
                                                                                                  Training Dataset Fraction
pre-training on Internet-scale video generation models.
                                                                      Figure 8: Number of Demonstrations.
5      Limitations                                                    Our approach maintains strong general-
                                                                      ization performance with less training
We highlight a few limitations and directions for future              data compared to Diffusion Policy.
work. By visually tracking the tools used for manipula-
tion, our implementation is limited to generating visually trackable robot actions. Although ad-
vances in video generation and object tracking models will improve accuracy, our approach can fail
when the end-effector is heavily occluded. Additionally, reliance on rigid tools limits the applica-
bility of our approach to the task requiring fine-grained control. Finally, video models have higher
computational costs, making real-time closed-loop control infeasible, though this can be mitigated
with recent advances [42, 43] in accelerating video model inference.

6      Conclusion

In this work, we investigate how video generative models can be used to learn generalizable vi-
suomotor policies. We propose to fine-tune a video diffusion model on human demonstrations to
synthesize an execution plan in the form of videos at test-time. These synthesized execution videos
are then directly used to control the robot. Our key insight is that using common tools allows us
to easily bridge the embodiment gap between the human hand in the demonstrations and the robot
manipulator in the real-world. Our experiments validate that capitalizing on Internet-scale video
diffusion models allows our approach to achieve a much larger degree of generalization compared
to previous behavior cloning methods like Diffusion Policy.




                                                         8
Acknowledgments
This research is based on work partially supported by the Toyota Research Institute and the NSF
NRI Award #2132519.

References
 [1] A. Khazatsky, K. Pertsch, S. Nair, A. Balakrishna, S. Dasari, S. Karamcheti, S. Nasiriany,
     M. K. Srirama, L. Y. Chen, K. Ellis, P. D. Fagan, J. Hejna, M. Itkina, M. Lepert, Y. J. Ma,
     P. T. Miller, J. Wu, S. Belkhale, S. Dass, H. Ha, A. Jain, A. Lee, Y. Lee, M. Memmel, S. Park,
     I. Radosavovic, K. Wang, A. Zhan, K. Black, C. Chi, K. B. Hatch, S. Lin, J. Lu, J. Mer-
     cat, A. Rehman, P. R. Sanketi, A. Sharma, C. Simpson, Q. Vuong, H. R. Walke, B. Wulfe,
     T. Xiao, J. H. Yang, A. Yavary, T. Z. Zhao, C. Agia, R. Baijal, M. G. Castro, D. Chen, Q. Chen,
     T. Chung, J. Drake, E. P. Foster, J. Gao, D. A. Herrera, M. Heo, K. Hsu, J. Hu, D. Jackson,
     C. Le, Y. Li, K. Lin, R. Lin, Z. Ma, A. Maddukuri, S. Mirchandani, D. Morton, T. Nguyen,
     A. O’Neill, R. Scalise, D. Seale, V. Son, S. Tian, E. Tran, A. E. Wang, Y. Wu, A. Xie, J. Yang,
     P. Yin, Y. Zhang, O. Bastani, G. Berseth, J. Bohg, K. Goldberg, A. Gupta, A. Gupta, D. Ja-
     yaraman, J. J. Lim, J. Malik, R. Martı́n-Martı́n, S. Ramamoorthy, D. Sadigh, S. Song, J. Wu,
     M. C. Yip, Y. Zhu, T. Kollar, S. Levine, and C. Finn. Droid: A large-scale in-the-wild robot
     manipulation dataset, 2024.

 [2] C. Chi, Z. Xu, S. Feng, E. Cousineau, Y. Du, B. Burchfiel, R. Tedrake, and S. Song. Diffusion
     policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion, 2024.

 [3] T. Z. Zhao, V. Kumar, S. Levine, and C. Finn. Learning fine-grained bimanual manipulation
     with low-cost hardware. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.13705, 2023.

 [4] H. Bharadhwaj, A. Gupta, V. Kumar, and S. Tulsiani. Towards generalizable zero-shot manip-
     ulation via translating human interaction plans. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.00775, 2023.

 [5] Y. Du, M. Yang, B. Dai, H. Dai, O. Nachum, J. B. Tenenbaum, D. Schuurmans, and P. Abbeel.
     Learning universal policies via text-guided video generation, 2023.

 [6] D. A. Pomerleau. Alvinn: An autonomous land vehicle in a neural network. Advances in
     neural information processing systems, 1, 1988.

 [7] T. Zhang, Z. McCarthy, O. Jow, D. Lee, X. Chen, K. Goldberg, and P. Abbeel. Deep imita-
     tion learning for complex manipulation tasks from virtual reality teleoperation. In 2018 IEEE
     international conference on robotics and automation (ICRA), pages 5628–5635. IEEE, 2018.

 [8] P. Florence, L. Manuelli, and R. Tedrake. Self-supervised correspondence in visuomotor policy
     learning, 2019.

 [9] Y. LeCun, S. Chopra, R. Hadsell, M. Ranzato, and F. Huang. A tutorial on energy-based
     learning. Predicting structured data, 1(0), 2006.

[10] Y. Du and I. Mordatch. Implicit generation and generalization in energy-based models, 2020.

[11] W. Huang, C. Wang, R. Zhang, Y. Li, J. Wu, and L. Fei-Fei. Voxposer: Composable 3d value
     maps for robotic manipulation with language models, 2023.

[12] P. Florence, C. Lynch, A. Zeng, O. Ramirez, A. Wahid, L. Downs, A. Wong, J. Lee, I. Mor-
     datch, and J. Tompson. Implicit behavioral cloning, 2021.

[13] S. Lee, Y. Wang, H. Etukuru, H. J. Kim, N. M. M. Shafiullah, and L. Pinto. Behavior generation
     with latent actions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.03181, 2024.

[14] C. Finn, I. Goodfellow, and S. Levine. Unsupervised learning for physical interaction through
     video prediction, 2016.


                                                 9
[15] P. Sermanet, C. Lynch, Y. Chebotar, J. Hsu, E. Jang, S. Schaal, and S. Levine. Time-contrastive
     networks: Self-supervised learning from video, 2018.

[16] M. Babaeizadeh, C. Finn, D. Erhan, R. H. Campbell, and S. Levine. Stochastic variational
     video prediction. arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.11252, 2017.

[17] A. X. Lee, R. Zhang, F. Ebert, P. Abbeel, C. Finn, and S. Levine. Stochastic adversarial video
     prediction, 2018.

[18] D. Suris, R. Liu, and C. Vondrick. Learning the predictability of the future. In Proceedings
     of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages
     12607–12617, June 2021.

[19] A. Srinivas, M. Laskin, and P. Abbeel. Curl: Contrastive unsupervised representations for
     reinforcement learning, 2020.

[20] S. Nair, A. Rajeswaran, V. Kumar, C. Finn, and A. Gupta. R3m: A universal visual represen-
     tation for robot manipulation, 2022.

[21] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, C. Hallacy, A. Ramesh, G. Goh, S. Agarwal, G. Sastry, A. Askell,
     P. Mishkin, J. Clark, G. Krueger, and I. Sutskever. Learning transferable visual models from
     natural language supervision, 2021.

[22] Y. Seo, D. Hafner, H. Liu, F. Liu, S. James, K. Lee, and P. Abbeel. Masked world models for vi-
     sual control. In K. Liu, D. Kulic, and J. Ichnowski, editors, Proceedings of The 6th Conference
     on Robot Learning, volume 205 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 1332–
     1344. PMLR, 14–18 Dec 2023. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v205/seo23a.
     html.

[23] I. Radosavovic, T. Xiao, S. James, P. Abbeel, J. Malik, and T. Darrell. Real-world robot
     learning with masked visual pre-training. In K. Liu, D. Kulic, and J. Ichnowski, editors, Pro-
     ceedings of The 6th Conference on Robot Learning, volume 205 of Proceedings of Machine
     Learning Research, pages 416–426. PMLR, 14–18 Dec 2023. URL https://proceedings.
     mlr.press/v205/radosavovic23a.html.

[24] I. Radosavovic, B. Shi, L. Fu, K. Goldberg, T. Darrell, and J. Malik. Robot learning with
     sensorimotor pre-training, 2023.

[25] Y. J. Ma, W. Liang, V. Som, V. Kumar, A. Zhang, O. Bastani, and D. Jayaraman. Liv:
     Language-image representations and rewards for robotic control, 2023.

[26] A. S. Chen, S. Nair, and C. Finn. Learning generalizable robotic reward functions from ”in-
     the-wild” human videos, 2021.

[27] A. Escontrela, A. Adeniji, W. Yan, A. Jain, X. B. Peng, K. Goldberg, Y. Lee, D. Hafner, and
     P. Abbeel. Video prediction models as rewards for reinforcement learning, 2023.

[28] T. Brooks, B. Peebles, C. Holmes, W. DePue, Y. Guo, L. Jing, D. Schnurr, J. Tay-
     lor, T. Luhman, E. Luhman, C. Ng, R. Wang, and A. Ramesh.         Video genera-
     tion models as world simulators.  2024.   URL https://openai.com/research/
     video-generation-models-as-world-simulators.

[29] A. Blattmann, T. Dockhorn, S. Kulal, D. Mendelevitch, M. Kilian, D. Lorenz, Y. Levi, Z. En-
     glish, V. Voleti, A. Letts, et al. Stable video diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to
     large datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127, 2023.

[30] A. Blattmann, R. Rombach, H. Ling, T. Dockhorn, S. W. Kim, S. Fidler, and K. Kreis. Align
     your latents: High-resolution video synthesis with latent diffusion models, 2023.


                                                  10
[31] S. Zhang, J. Wang, Y. Zhang, K. Zhao, H. Yuan, Z. Qin, X. Wang, D. Zhao, and J. Zhou.
     I2vgen-xl: High-quality image-to-video synthesis via cascaded diffusion models, 2023.
[32] J. Ho, W. Chan, C. Saharia, J. Whang, R. Gao, A. Gritsenko, D. P. Kingma, B. Poole,
     M. Norouzi, D. J. Fleet, and T. Salimans. Imagen video: High definition video generation
     with diffusion models, 2022.

[33] S. Yang, J. Walker, J. Parker-Holder, Y. Du, J. Bruce, A. Barreto, P. Abbeel, and D. Schuur-
     mans. Video as the new language for real-world decision making, 2024.
[34] Z. Yang, Y. Chen, J. Wang, S. Manivasagam, W.-C. Ma, A. J. Yang, and R. Urtasun. Unisim:
     A neural closed-loop sensor simulator, 2023.

[35] Y. Du, M. Yang, P. Florence, F. Xia, A. Wahid, B. Ichter, P. Sermanet, T. Yu, P. Abbeel, J. B.
     Tenenbaum, L. Kaelbling, A. Zeng, and J. Tompson. Video language planning, 2023.
[36] A. Ajay, S. Han, Y. Du, S. Li, A. Gupta, T. Jaakkola, J. Tenenbaum, L. Kaelbling, A. Srivastava,
     and P. Agrawal. Compositional foundation models for hierarchical planning, 2023.

[37] K. Black, M. Nakamoto, P. Atreya, H. Walke, C. Finn, A. Kumar, and S. Levine. Zero-
     shot robotic manipulation with pretrained image-editing diffusion models. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2310.10639, 2023.
[38] B. Van Hoorick, R. Wu, E. Ozguroglu, K. Sargent, R. Liu, P. Tokmakov, A. Dave, C. Zheng,
     and C. Vondrick. Generative camera dolly: Extreme monocular dynamic novel view synthesis.
     arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.14868, 2024.
[39] Y. Labbé, L. Manuelli, A. Mousavian, S. Tyree, S. Birchfield, J. Tremblay, J. Carpentier,
     M. Aubry, D. Fox, and J. Sivic. Megapose: 6d pose estimation of novel objects via render
     & compare. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.06870, 2022.
[40] C. Chi, S. Feng, Y. Du, Z. Xu, E. Cousineau, B. Burchfiel, and S. Song. Diffusion policy:
     Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.04137, 2023.
[41] C. Chi, Z. Xu, C. Pan, E. Cousineau, B. Burchfiel, S. Feng, R. Tedrake, and S. Song. Universal
     manipulation interface: In-the-wild robot teaching without in-the-wild robots. In Proceedings
     of Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS), 2024.

[42] S. Luo, Y. Tan, S. Patil, D. Gu, P. von Platen, A. Passos, L. Huang, J. Li, and H. Zhao. Lcm-lora:
     A universal stable-diffusion acceleration module. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.05556, 2023.
[43] X. Li, Y. Liu, L. Lian, H. Yang, Z. Dong, D. Kang, S. Zhang, and K. Keutzer. Q-diffusion:
     Quantizing diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on
     Computer Vision, pages 17535–17545, 2023.

[44] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In Pro-
     ceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 770–778,
     2016.




                                                  11
A     Video Model Implementation

We adapted the pretrained Stable Video Diffusion model [29], which generates 25-frame videos
at a time. In our adaptation, the first 13 frames correspond to the stereo view 1, and the last 12
frames correspond to the stereo view 2, captured from the two cameras. To condition the video
model to generate a stereo video, we modified the per-frame image embedding based on the viewing
angle of each output frame. Since each frame of the stereo videos should be paired but the video
model generates an odd number of frames, the first frame of the video model output is always the
same as the input and discarded at test time. The model training hyperparameters are given in
Table 3. During inference, we use 30 denoising steps with a constant classifier-free guidance of 1.0.
Additional qualitative results for the four tasks are shown in Fig 9, 10, 11 and 12.

        H-Param            Res      Lr    Batch Size   Train Steps   Clip Duration   Fps   MotScr
    Rotation (Full DS)   768×448   1e-5       4          16384            2.0         6      200
    Rotation (2/3 DS)    768×448   1e-5       4          16384            2.0         6      200
    Rotation (1/3 DS)    768×448   1e-5       3          15360            2.0         6      200
        Scooping         768×448   1e-5       4          16384            3.0         5      200
        Sweeping         768×448   1e-5       4          16384            3.0         5      200
       Push-Shape        768×448   1e-5       4          17408            2.0         6      200

Table 3: Hyperparameters for Video Model Training. Res: image and video resolution, Lr:
learning rate, Batch Size: batch size, Training Steps: training steps for the evaluation checkpoint,
Clip Duration: single demonstration video length in seconds, Fps: the video sub-sampling frame
rate and model fps parameter, MotScr: model motion score parameter.


B     Experimental Setup

The stereo camera setup consists of two Intel RealSense D435i cameras spaced approximately 660
mm apart at a 45◦ angle. The distance between the cameras and the table is about 760 mm. The
real-world data collection and the robot experiment setups are shown in Fig. 17 and 18. The training
videos are recorded at a resolution of 1280×720 and are then cropped and resized to the appropriate
resolution for model input. The table surface used for data collection and experiments is covered
with a black cloth, which introduces variations in friction and increases uncertainty in the Push-
Shape experiments. For the rotation and scooping experiments, UFACTORY xArm 7 robots are
used, while UR5 robots are used for the sweeping and Push-Shape experiments. For calculating
the mIoU in the Push-Shape experiment, the view from the stereo camera 1 is used. In each trial
with multiple steps, the resulting image with the highest IoU with the target is used to calculate the
rotation error. In sweeping and push-shape experiments, the robot end-effector height is limited to
avoid robot collision with the table top.

C     Data Collection

For all tasks, the first frame of the human demonstration video is an image of the scene. The
subsequent frames include the human demonstrator using the tool to perform the manipulation. In
the Push-Shape demonstration, an object is pushed to a location in multiple steps. The final position
of the object is used as a mask and blended with the entire video for the target position. The objects
used in training and testing for different tasks are shown in Fig. 13, 14, 15 and 16.

D     Object Tracking

In the videos, the tool is tracked using MegaPose [39]. Utilizing a stereo setup, the center of the
tracked object from each camera are projected into 3D space as a straight line. The translation
component of the object in 3D space is determined by finding the midpoint between the projected
lines from the two cameras. The rotation component of the object is obtained by averaging the


                                                  12
object rotations from the two views. This refined object pose from the stereo setup enhances the
accuracy of the object’s depth measurement from the cameras. In the scooping task, only the handle
of the scooper is tracked to avoid inaccuracies due to occlusion by particles. In the sweeping and
Push-Shape tasks, the tool without the handle is tracked, as the handle is occluded by the human
hand. To obtain the tool trajectories for training Diffusion Policy, the same stereo tracking is applied
to the demonstration videos.

E    Diffusion Policy Baseline

We use a CNN-based Diffusion Policy as our baseline, employing two pretrained ResNet-18 [44]
image encoders to process the stereo images of the scene. The input images have a resolution of
384×224, similar to the original implementation resolution. We found that higher resolution input
images did not improve model performance.

                  Input Image                 Ours (Trajectory)          Diffusion Policy (Trajectory)




                                                                                      Start              End


Figure 9: Additional Rotation Qualitative Results. The trajectories of the end-effectors are pro-
jected onto the input image.




                                                   13
                 Input Image                Ours (Trajectory)        Diffusion Policy (Trajectory)




                                                                                  Start              End


Figure 10: Additional Scooping Qualitative Results. The trajectory of the end-effector is projected
onto the input image.

                 Input Image                Ours (Trajectory)        Diffusion Policy (Trajectory)




                                                                                  Start              End


Figure 11: Additional Sweeping Qualitative Results. The trajectory of the end-effector is pro-
jected onto the input image.


                                                 14
                 Ours   Diffusion Policy     Ours      Diffusion Policy    Ours   Diffusion Policy   Ours    Diffusion Policy




                                                                                                                                End
   Final Image




                                                                                                                                Start
   Step 4
   Step 3
   Step 2
   Step 1
   Input Image




Figure 12: Additional Push-Shape Qualitative Results. The trajectory of the end-effector is pro-
jected onto the input image.



                                           Training Objects                                           Testing Objects




Figure 13: Rotation Objects. The training set includes 14 real-world objects and 17 custom colored
shapes made out of foam. The testing set includes 10 challenging real-world objects.



                                                                      15
                   Training Objects                                        Testing Objects




Figure 14: Scooping Objects. The training set includes 17 bowls, 8 colored beans and 4 real-
world objects. The testing set includes 8 bowls, 4 colored particles and 15 real-world distraction
objects. During data collection, both the real-world objects and inverted bowls are used as the single
distraction object in the scene.


                       Training Objects                                       Testing Objects




Figure 15: Sweeping Objects. The training set includes 25 distraction objects and 6 colored beans,
with 5 to 6 distractions in the scene at a time during data collection. The testing set includes 15 real-
world distraction objects and 6 colored particles. The star is used as the target in the experiments.


                      Training Objects                                       Testing Objects




Figure 16: Push-Shape Objects. The training set includes all 26 capital letters of the alphabet,
while the testing set consists of 8 shapes, including digits and polygons.


                                                   16
                                               Stereo
                                              Camera 1
                          Stereo
                         Camera 2



                                 Human
                                  Tool




Figure 17: Real-world Data Collection Setup. The data collection setup has the same camera
arrangement as the robot experiment setup.




                                                                   Stereo
                                                                  Camera 1
                               Stereo
                              Camera 2




                                             Robot
                                             Tools




Figure 18: Real-world Robot Experiment Setup. The robot experiment setup includes the 3 robots
to perform all the experiments.




                                             17
